MTM54530 beginners tutorial (#1390)
SoftwareAG/c8y-docs: content/welcome-users/first-steps.md

See [UI functionalities and features](/get-familiar-with-the-ui/gui-features/) for more information on all {{< product-c8y-iot >}}'s UI features.

#### Account settings {#account-settings}

The user menu provides access to the following actions or information:

<img src="/images/users-guide/getting-started/getting-started-user-account-menu.png" alt="User account menu"  style="max-width: 60%">

Click **User settings** to change account settings such as your password. Under **UI settings**, change the language of the UI. **Platform info** shows release information on the {{< product-c8y-iot >}} versions you are using. Moreover you find links to the product support and user documentation at the bottom.

See [User options and settings](/get-familiar-with-the-ui/user-settings/) for detailed information.

### Step 3: Register a device

> To connect a device to {{< product-c8y-iot >}}, you need to register it in the **Device management application**. This process is described in general in [Registering devices](/device-management-application/registering-devices/). As a start, see the following ways a device can be connected to your {{< product-c8y-iot >}} account:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To connect a device to {{< product-c8y-iot >}}, you need to register it in the platform. This is done in the Device management application. under [Registering devices](/device-management-application/registering-devices/) you find a detailed description of the general registration process. 

Moreover we offer two step-by-step description to easily register a first device to your {{< product-c8y-iot >}} account:
```

Reviewer: I was still not happy, changed it once more :-).

Follow the instructions below to customize the new dashboard of the device you registered in the previous step.

1. In the Cockpit application, select the device you created in the previous step (for example, your smartphone in the **Phones** group). Click the **SensorTag Dashboard** tab.
2. Click **Edit** in the top menu bar to open the editor.

![Customize dashboard](/images/users-guide/getting-started/getting-started-tutorial-dashboard-customize.png)

3. In the dashboard editor, provide the following information like in the image below:

    * In the **General** section, change the menu label to "Phone SensorTag Dashboard".
    * In the **Layout** section, change the theme to "Dark" and set the header style to "Border".
<br><br>

  ![Dashboard editor](/images/users-guide/getting-started/getting-started-customize-dashboard.png)

6. In the **Preview** section at the right, a preview of the selected layout settings is immediately displayed to visualize your selections.

7. Click **Save** to save your modifications.

You have successfully customized your first dashboard.

![Dashboard edited](/images/users-guide/getting-started/getting-started-customize-dashboard-result.png)

> See [Working with dashboards](/cockpit/working-with-dashboards/) for more details on how to create, share, edit, copy, and delete dashboards.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See [Working with dashboards](/cockpit/working-with-dashboards/) for more details on how to create, share, edit, copy, and delete dashboards.

Next, we will learn how to create a report.
```

![Reports](/images/users-guide/getting-started/getting-started-add-new-report.png)

5. Click **Save** to create the report and add it to the report list.

![Reports](/images/users-guide/getting-started/getting-started-report-created.png)

You have successfully created a report. Next, we will add a widget to the report.

See [Working with reports](/cockpit/working-with-reports/) for more details on how to add, edit and delete reports.

### Step 6: Add a widget to a report

Widgets can display maps, images, graphs, tables and other graphic representations of data. Widgets are useful to track information, for example on alarms, assets or applications, or provide maps, quick links and more in dashboards or reports.  Go to [Widgets collection](/cockpit/widgets-collection/) to see a list of all preset widgets that {{< product-c8y-iot >}} provides.

{{< c8y-admon-info >}}
You can also develop your own widgets and add them to your {{< product-c8y-iot >}} account. For more information go to [Add a custom widget to a dashboard](/web/tutorials/#add-a-custom-widget-to-dashboard).
{{< /c8y-admon-info >}}

> #### To add a widget to a report

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### To add a widget to a dashboard or a report
```

> 1. Click the **Add widget** button on the main page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Click the **Add widget** button on the main page or click **Add widget** in the top menu bar.
```

Click **Login** to enter the {{< product-c8y-iot >}} platform. Initially, you will be taken to the [Cockpit](/cockpit/cockpit-introduction/) application, if not configured differently. For further information about the {{< product-c8y-iot >}} standard applications see [Available applications](/get-familiar-with-the-ui/available-applications/).

![image alt text](/images/users-guide/cockpit/cockpit-home-screen.png)

Go to [Accessing and logging into the platform](/get-familiar-with-the-ui/platform-access/) for more details on supported URLs, password reset, and more.

### Step 2: Learn about {{< product-c8y-iot >}}'s basic UI functionalities and features

#### Main screen elements

All {{< product-c8y-iot >}} applications share a common structure and include the following screen elements:

![{{< product-c8y-iot >}} application](/images/users-guide/getting-started/getting-started-screen-ui-elements.png)

On the left you have the navigator, which shows a list of entries leading to various pages of the application. The entries are grouped into menus and menu items.
In the middle you find the content of the actual page which has been selected in the navigator.

> On the top you find the page title at the left. At the right you find various action buttons. Click the <img class="Default" src="/images/icons/search-icon.png" alt="Search" style="display: inline-block; margin:0"> **Search** button to enter text for a full-text search. The <img class="Default" src="/images/icons/switcher-icon.png" alt="Search" style="display: inline-block; margin:0">  **Application Switcher** button allows you to quickly switch between all available applications. Clicking the <img class="Default" src="/images/icons/users-icon.png" alt="Search" style="display: inline-block; margin:0;"> **User** button at the right opens a context menu with details on your [account settings](#user-options).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On the top you find the page title at the left. At the right you find various action buttons. Click the <img class="Default" src="/images/icons/search-icon.png" alt="Search" style="display: inline-block; margin:0"> **Search** button to enter text for a full-text search. The <img class="Default" src="/images/icons/switcher-icon.png" alt="Search" style="display: inline-block; margin:0">  **Application Switcher** button allows you to quickly switch between all available applications. Clicking the <img class="Default" src="/images/icons/users-icon.png" alt="Search" style="display: inline-block; margin:0;"> **User** button at the right opens a context menu with details on your [account settings](#user-options), as described below.
```

> On the top you find the page title at the left. At the right you find various action buttons. Click the <img class="Default" src="/images/icons/search-icon.png" alt="Search" style="display: inline-block; margin:0"> **Search** button to enter text for a full-text search. The <img class="Default" src="/images/icons/switcher-icon.png" alt="Search" style="display: inline-block; margin:0">  **Application Switcher** button allows you to quickly switch between all available applications. Clicking the <img class="Default" src="/images/icons/users-icon.png" alt="Search" style="display: inline-block; margin:0;"> **User** button at the right opens a context menu with details on your [account settings](#user-options).

Author: Behind is after the word? :9 @BeateRixen

> On the top you find the page title at the left. At the right you find various action buttons. Click the <img class="Default" src="/images/icons/search-icon.png" alt="Search" style="display: inline-block; margin:0"> **Search** button to enter text for a full-text search. The <img class="Default" src="/images/icons/switcher-icon.png" alt="Search" style="display: inline-block; margin:0">  **Application Switcher** button allows you to quickly switch between all available applications. Clicking the <img class="Default" src="/images/icons/users-icon.png" alt="Search" style="display: inline-block; margin:0;"> **User** button at the right opens a context menu with details on your [account settings](#user-options).

Reviewer: I would actually place it after "button" even, as we do it here similarly:

![image](https://github.com/SoftwareAG/c8y-docs/assets/90445236/36923055-6f36-4e66-b1b5-3c197664dc2b)

See [UI functionalities and features](/get-familiar-with-the-ui/gui-features/) for more information on all {{< product-c8y-iot >}}'s UI features.

> #### User options and settings {#user-options}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Account settings {#account-settings}
```

See [User options and settings](/get-familiar-with-the-ui/user-settings/) for detailed information.

### Step 3: Register a device

To connect a device to {{< product-c8y-iot >}}, you need to register it. This is done in the **Device management application**. Devices can be connected to your {{< product-c8y-iot >}} account in three different ways:

* Connect a smartphone to {{< product-c8y-iot >}} using the [{{< sensor-app >}}](/sensor-app/overview/). The {{< sensor-app >}} is a free smartphone application available for iOS and Android smartphones.
* Connect a [Raspberry Pi as demo device using thin.edge.io](/device-integration/integration-tutorials/#prerequisites). The Raspberry Pi is a relatively simple and cheap yet powerful device. This makes it ideal for testing and trying out as well as some production use cases.
* [Connect any device manually](/device-management-application/registering-devices/#to-connect-a-device-manually) by following the manual device registration steps.

#### Connecting a smartphone with the {{< sensor-app >}}

In this tutorial, we will register a device via the {{< sensor-app >}}.

> The app is designed to collect measurements from your smartphone, nearby Bluetooth device sensors, and vehicle On-board Debug (OBD) sensors, and send them to the {{< product-c8y-iot >}} platform. The {{< sensor-app >}} can also send commands to the smartphone directly from the phone dashboard.

Reviewer: Not really relevant here?

2.  Follow the instructions in the wizard to step 3, ensuring that the app is installed on the smartphone.

    ![QR code](/images/users-guide/csa/csa-connect-smartphone-wizard-step3.png)

3.  From your smartphone, launch the app and tap **Register** in the top right corner of the screen. 

    ![Register smartphone](/images/users-guide/getting-started/getting-started-register-smartphone.png)

4.  Grant access to your camera if the app asks you for permission.
5.  Scan the QR code shown on your PC's web browser. If you can't scan the QR code, tap **Manual registration** on your smartphone and fill in the details at the right side of the wizard screen.
6.  Back on your smartphone, tap **Done**. Your smartphone is automatically registered by {{< product-c8y-iot >}} and assigned to the "Phones" group.

    ![Register smartphone done](/images/users-guide/getting-started/getting-started-register-smartphone-done.png)

7. On the platform, click the **Open dashboard** button to view the dashboard that has been automatically created with your device.

    ![Register smartphone done](/images/users-guide/getting-started/getting-started-open-dashboard-done.png)

> {{< c8y-admon-info >}}

Reviewer: Remove

For versions earlier than 10.6.6 or if you are unable to scan the QR code, see [Manual registration](/sensor-app/registering-the-sensor-app/#manual-registration).
{{< /c8y-admon-info >}}

> You have connected your smartphone with the {{< sensor-app >}}. For information on how the app sends information to {{< product-c8y-iot >}} go to [Sending sensor data to the platform](/sensor-app/sending-sensor-data/) and on how to view sensor data go to [Viewing sensor data](/sensor-app/viewing-sensor-data/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You have connected your smartphone with the {{< sensor-app >}}. For details on how the app sends information to {{< product-c8y-iot >}} go to [Sending sensor data to the platform](/sensor-app/sending-sensor-data/). For information on how to view sensor data go to [Viewing sensor data](/sensor-app/viewing-sensor-data/).
```

### Step 4: Customize the dashboard

> The dashboard that was created from the last step can be edited and designed individually according to your needs. You can add, remove or change widgets being displayed here allowing you to visualize data emanating from your device or devices. For details on each widget type refer to [Widgets collection](/cockpit/widgets-collection/). The Cockpit application in {{< product-c8y-iot >}} provides you with an unrestrained overview and the essential dashboards to monitor your IoT data according to your needs.

Reviewer: I´m not sure if the last sentence makes sense here. Probably it should be placed at the beginning of this section?

> Follow the instructions below to customize the new dashboard of the device you registered in the last step.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Follow the instructions below to customize the new dashboard of the device you registered in the previous step.
```

> 1. In the Cockpit application, make sure the group or device is selected in the navigator. Click on the "SensorTag Dashboard" **Tab** on the superior part of the application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. In the Cockpit application, select the device you created in the previous step (for example, your smartphone in the **Phones** group**). Click the **SensorTag Dashboard** tab.
```

2. Click **Edit** in the top menu bar to open the editor.

![Customize dashboard](/images/users-guide/getting-started/getting-started-tutorial-dashboard-customize.png)

3. In the dashboard editor, provide the following information like in the image below:

    * In the **General** section, change the menu label to "Phone SensorTag Dashboard".
    * In the **Layout** section, change the theme to "Dark" and set the header style to "Border".

>     * You can enable the option **Translate widget titles if possible**, to have the widget title translated every time the language is changed.

Reviewer: Not really relevant

6. In the **Preview** section at the right, a preview of the selected layout settings is immediately displayed to visualize your selections.

7. Click **Save** to save your modifications.

You have successfully customized your first dashboard.

![Dashboard edited](/images/users-guide/getting-started/getting-started-customize-dashboard-result.png)

See [Working with dashboards](/cockpit/working-with-dashboards/) for more details on how to create, share, edit, copy, and delete dashboards.

### Step 5: Create a report

Reports enable you to track applications, alarms, assets, and other data in a dashboard layout. Reports are global dashboard pages, regardless of the [asset hierarchy](/cockpit/managing-assets/#asset-hierarchy). To work with reports, check if you meet the [requirements](/cockpit/reports/) first.

To create a report click **Reports** in the **Navigator** on the left side and following the steps below.

#### Creating a report

![Reports](/images/users-guide/getting-started/getting-started-add-a-new-report.png)

1. Click the **Add report** button to open the **Add report** dialog window.

> 2. In the **Menu label** field, enter a name for the report, for this tutorial name the report "Smartphone Measurements" and optionally provide a description below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. In the **Menu label** field, enter a name for the report. For this tutorial name the report "Smartphone Measurements" and optionally provide a description below.
```

3. You can display the report in the navigator with the option **Show in navigator** but we will leave that unchecked in this tutorial.
4. In the **Layout** section, change the theme to "Branded" and set the header style to "Border". In the **Preview** section at the right, a preview of the selected layout settings is immediately displayed to visualize your selections.

![Reports](/images/users-guide/getting-started/getting-started-add-new-report.png)

5. Click **Save** to create the report and add it to the report list.

![Reports](/images/users-guide/getting-started/getting-started-report-created.png)

> You have successfully created a report.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You have successfully created a report. Next, we will add a widget to the report.
```

See [Working with reports](/cockpit/working-with-reports/) for more details on how to add, edit and delete reports.

### Step 6: Add a widget to a report

Widgets can display maps, images, graphs, tables and other graphic representations of data. Widgets are useful to track information, for example on alarms, assets or applications, or provide maps, quick links and more in dashboards or reports.  Go to [Widgets collection](/cockpit/widgets-collection/) to see a list of all preset widgets that {{< product-c8y-iot >}} provides.

{{< c8y-admon-info >}}
You can also develop your own widgets and add them to your {{< product-c8y-iot >}} account. For more information go to [Add a custom widget to a dashboard](/web/tutorials/#add-a-custom-widget-to-dashboard).
{{< /c8y-admon-info >}}

#### To add a widget to a report

1. Click the **Add widget** button on the main page.

![Add widget](/images/users-guide/getting-started/getting-started-add-widget-to-report.png)

2. In the **Add widget** dialog, select the Map widget type.

> 3. Next, configure the widget. In the **Asset selection** section, select the Phones group and next select the device that was registered in a previous step "Smartphone Tutorial". Give it the **Title** "Smartphone Location" and set the **Zoom level** to 8.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Next, configure the widget. In the **Asset selection** section, select the Phones group and next select the device "Smartphone Tutorial" that was registered in a previous step. Use "Smartphone Location" as **Title** and set the **Zoom level** to 8.
```

See [UI functionalities and features](/get-familiar-with-the-ui/gui-features/) for more information on all {{< product-c8y-iot >}}'s UI features.

#### Account settings {#account-settings}

The user menu provides access to the following actions or information:

<img src="/images/users-guide/getting-started/getting-started-user-account-menu.png" alt="User account menu"  style="max-width: 60%">

Click **User settings** to change account settings such as your password. Under **UI settings**, change the language of the UI. **Platform info** shows release information on the {{< product-c8y-iot >}} versions you are using. Moreover you find links to the product support and user documentation at the bottom.

See [User options and settings](/get-familiar-with-the-ui/user-settings/) for detailed information.

### Step 3: Register a device

To connect a device to {{< product-c8y-iot >}}, you need to register it in the platform. This is done in the **Device management application**. Under [Registering devices](/device-management-application/registering-devices/) you find a detailed description of the general registration process.

> Moreover we offer two step-by-step description to easily register a first device to your {{< product-c8y-iot >}} account:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Moreover we offer two step-by-step descriptions to easily register a first device to your {{< product-c8y-iot >}} account:
```

    ![Register smartphone](/images/users-guide/getting-started/getting-started-register-smartphone.png)

4.  Grant access to your camera if the app asks you for permission.
5.  Scan the QR code shown on your PC's web browser. If you can't scan the QR code, tap **Manual registration** on your smartphone and fill in the details at the right side of the wizard screen.
6.  Back on your smartphone, tap **Done**. Your smartphone is automatically registered by {{< product-c8y-iot >}} and assigned to the "Phones" group.

    ![Register smartphone done](/images/users-guide/getting-started/getting-started-register-smartphone-done.png)

7. On the platform, click the **Open dashboard** button to view the dashboard that has been automatically created with your device.

    ![Register smartphone done](/images/users-guide/getting-started/getting-started-open-dashboard-done.png)

You have connected your smartphone with the {{< sensor-app >}}. For details on how the app sends information to {{< product-c8y-iot >}} go to [Sending sensor data to the platform](/sensor-app/sending-sensor-data/). For information on how to view sensor data go to [Viewing sensor data](/sensor-app/viewing-sensor-data/).

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Next, we will switch to the Cockpit application via the application switcher at the top right to create our first dashboard.
```

### Step 4: Customize the dashboard

> Next, we will switch to the Cockpit application via the application switcher at the top right to create our first dashboard.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

To create a report click **Reports** in the **Navigator** on the left side and following the steps below.

#### Creating a report

![Reports](/images/users-guide/getting-started/getting-started-add-a-new-report.png)

1. Click the **Add report** button to open the **Add report** dialog window.
2. In the **Menu label** field, enter a name for the report. For this tutorial name the report "Smartphone Measurements" and optionally provide a description below.
3. You can display the report in the navigator with the option **Show in navigator** but we will leave that unchecked in this tutorial.
4. In the **Layout** section, change the theme to "Branded" and set the header style to "Border". In the **Preview** section at the right, a preview of the selected layout settings is immediately displayed to visualize your selections.

![Reports](/images/users-guide/getting-started/getting-started-add-new-report.png)

5. Click **Save** to create the report and add it to the report list.

![Reports](/images/users-guide/getting-started/getting-started-report-created.png)

> You have successfully created a report. Next, we will add a widget to the report.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You have successfully created a report. See [Working with reports](/cockpit/working-with-reports/) for more details on how to add, edit and delete reports.
```

> See [Working with reports](/cockpit/working-with-reports/) for more details on how to add, edit and delete reports.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Next, we will add a widget to the report.
```

{{< /c8y-admon-info >}}

<a name="user-options"></a>
#### User options and settings

Clicking the **User** button at the top right opens a menu which provides access to the following actions or information:

<img src="/images/users-guide/getting-started/getting-started-user-account-menu.png" alt="User account menu"  style="max-width: 60%">

Click on **User settings** to change user settings such as your password. **Access denied requests** shows a list of data requests which could not be accessed due to missing permissions, if any. Change the language of the UI in **UI settings**. **Platform info** shows release information on the {{< product-c8y-iot >}} version you are using.

See [User options and settings](/get-familiar-with-the-ui/user-settings/) for more information.

### Step 3: Registering a device

To integrate a device to {{< product-c8y-iot >}}, you need to register it. This is done in the **Device management application**. Devices can be connected to your {{< product-c8y-iot >}} account in three different ways:

> 

Reviewer: This has not been resolved :-). The text above is not really true. You can add a device in a lot of ways. The general registration is described in the last bullet item. The other 2 are just offerings from us for an easy start. Needs to be rephrased.

> 

Author: @BeateRixen How about:

```suggestion
To connect a device to {{< product-c8y-iot >}}, you need to register it in the **Device management application**. As a start, see the following ways a device can be connected to your {{< product-c8y-iot >}} account:
```

</tr>
<tr>
<td style="text-align:left">Revoke tokens</td>
<td style="text-align:left">Revoking tokens logs out all users currently logged in via "OAI-Secure" or "Single sign-on redirect". Note that JWT tokens retrieved by your devices will also be revoked.<br>
<br>
To revoke tokens, you must have ADMIN permission for the permission type "User management".  
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="text-align:left">Version information</td>
<td style="text-align:left">Shows release information on the {{< product-c8y-iot >}} version you are using (for example, 10.13.0.034) for both Backend and UI. Moreover shows the ID of your tenant, which might be required if you request support. Click the copy icon next to the tenant ID to copy it to the clipboard.</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

### Step 3: Registering a device

To integrate a device to {{< product-c8y-iot >}}, you need to register in the **Device management application**. Devices can be connected to your {{< product-c8y-iot >}} account in different ways. In this tutorial, follow the instructions to register a single device manually.

> ### To connect a device manually

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### To connect a device manually
```

{{< c8y-admon-info >}}
Depending on the type of device you want to connect, not all steps of the following process may be relevant.
{{< /c8y-admon-info >}}

1. Click **Registration** in the **Devices** menu of the navigator.
2. In the **Device registration** page, click **Register device** at the right of the top bar and from the dropdown menu select **Single registration** > **General**. The **Register devices** dialog box will be displayed.
3. In the **Device ID** field, enter a unique ID for the device. To determine the ID, consult the device documentation. In case of mobile devices the ID usually is the IMEI (International Mobile Equipment Identity) often found on the back of the device.
4. Optionally, select a group to assign your device to after registration, see also [Grouping devices](/device-management-application/grouping-devices/).

> 5. Click **Add device** to register one more device. Again, enter the device ID and optionally select a group. This way, you can add multiple devices in one step.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
5. Click **Add device** to register one more device. Enter the device ID and optionally select a group. This allows you to add multiple devices in one step.
```

6. Click **Next** to register your device(s).

{{< c8y-admon-info >}}

> In an {{< enterprise-tenant >}}, the {{< management-tenant >}} may also directly select a tenant to which the device will be added from here. Note that since the {{< management-tenant >}} does not have access to the subtenant's inventory you can either register devices to a tenant OR to a group, not both.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In an {{< enterprise-tenant >}}, the {{< management-tenant >}} may also directly select a tenant to which the device will be added from here. Note that since the {{< management-tenant >}} does not have access to the subtenant's inventory you can either register devices to a tenant OR to a group, but not both.
```

<img src="/images/users-guide/DeviceManagement/devmgmt-device-registration-tenant.png" alt="General device registration">
{{< /c8y-admon-info >}}

> 

Reviewer 2: I think the tutorial would profit from a heading here.

> After successful registration the device(s) will be listed in the [Registering devices](/device-management-application/registering-devices/) page with the status "Waiting for connection".

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After successful registration, the device(s) are listed in the [Registering devices](/device-management-application/registering-devices/) page with the status "Waiting for connection".
```

> After successful registration, the device(s) are listed in the [Registering devices](/device-management-application/registering-devices/) page with the status "Waiting for connection".

Author: It has not changed

The Raspberry Pi is a relatively simple and cheap yet powerful device. This makes it ideal for testing and trying out as well as some production use cases.

For an overview of the installation and configuration of thin-edge.io with Raspberry Pi go to [thing-edge.io on a Raspberry Pi](/device-integration/integration-tutorials/#prerequisites).

#### Grouping devices
Devices can be grouped according to a particular use case. A device can be located in multiple groups and groups themselves can again be part of multiple groups.

{{< product-c8y-iot >}} distinguishes between top-level groups and subgroups:

* **Top-level groups** are shown in the **Group** menu in the navigator at top-level.
* **Subgroups** can be used to further subdivide top-level groups.

For more information on this feature, go to our section about [Grouping devices](/device-management-application/grouping-devices/).

### Step 4: Working with dashboards

> The predefined dashboard can be edited and designed individually according to your needs. You can add, remove or change widgets being displayed here allowing you to visualize data emanating from your device or devices. The cockpit application in {{< product-c8y-iot >}} provides you with an unrestrained overview and the essential dashboards to monitor your IoT data the way you want.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The predefined dashboard can be edited and designed individually according to your needs. You can add, remove or change widgets being displayed here allowing you to visualize data emanating from your device or devices. The Cockpit application in {{< product-c8y-iot >}} provides you with an unrestrained overview and the essential dashboards to monitor your IoT data according to your needs.
```

> Follow the instructions below to create a new dashboard with the device you registered in the last step. You may need to check if you meet the [requirements](/cockpit/working-with-dashboards/) first.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Follow the instructions below to create a new dashboard with the device you registered in the last step. It can be necessary to check if you meet the [requirements](/cockpit/working-with-dashboards/) first.
```

#### Creating a dashboard

> 1. Select the group or the device in the navigator for which to create a dashboard.

Reviewer: Provide examples for everything, as this is a tutorial :-). Use consistent examples and provide screenshots. In a tutorial, this is really helpful.

2. Click the plus icon right from the tabs to open the dashboard editor.

3. In the **Tab** section of the dashboard editor, provide the following information:

    * An icon which is shown next to the dashboard name in the navigator.
    * A menu label to be used as the name of the dashboard.
    * The location of the dashboard in the navigator, with "10000" being ordered first and "-10000" last.
<br><br>

> 4. Enable the option **Apply dashboard to all devices of type <device type>** to share the dashboard with all devices of this type.

Reviewer: Probably not required as first steps

> 5. In the **Availability** section, specify which users have access to the dashboard based on global roles. By default, all available global roles are selected, which means that a user with at least one such role has access to the dashboard.

Reviewer: Same here, not sure if this is really relevant when xou create your first dashboard for the first time

   {{< c8y-admon-info >}}
- Dashboard are always visible to its owner and to users with ADMIN permission for the permission type "Inventory".
- This functionality is entirely based on client-side solutions. If users have an accurate link to the dashboard, they will still be able to access it.
    {{< /c8y-admon-info >}}

> 6. In the **Layout** section you can select a theme for the dashboard (one of "Light", "Dark", "Transparent" or "Branded") and a default header style for the widgets (one of "Regular", "Border", "Overlay", or "Hidden"). Moreover, you can change the default widget margin (default value is 15 px).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
6. In the **Layout** section you can select a theme for the dashboard (one of "Light", "Dark", "Transparent" or "Branded") and a default header style for the widgets (for example, "Regular", "Border", "Overlay", or "Hidden"). Moreover, you can change the default widget margin (default value is 15 px).
```

7. Enable the option **Translate widget titles if possible**, to have the widget title translated every time the language is changed.

>     {{< c8y-admon-info >}}

Reviewer: Not relevant here

The widget titles will be translated only if a valid translation is available.
    {{< /c8y-admon-info >}}
8. In the **Preview** section at the right, a preview of the selected layout settings is immediately displayed to visualize your selections.

9. Click **Save** to create and open the dashboard.

> You have created a dashboard, in step 6 you will learn how to add widgets.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You have successfully created a customized dashboard. In step 6 you will learn how to add widgets to further modify your dashboard..
```

Reviewer 2: @dianaolives It might be better to omit the reference of step 6 here, as it is a bit confusing.

Go to the [Working with dashboards](/cockpit/working-with-dashboards/) for more on how to share, edit, copy, and delete dashboards.

### Step 5: Working with reports

> Reports enable you to track applications, alarms, assets, and other data in a dashboard layout. Reports are global dashboard pages, regardless of the [asset hierarchy](/cockpit/managing-assets/#asset-hierarchy). To work with reports you may need to check if you meet the [requirements](/cockpit/reports/) first.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Reports enable you to track applications, alarms, assets, and other data in a dashboard layout. Reports are global dashboard pages, regardless of the [asset hierarchy](/cockpit/managing-assets/#asset-hierarchy). To work with reports check if you meet the [requirements](/cockpit/reports/) first.
```

![Reports](/images/users-guide/cockpit/cockpit-reports-list.png)

#### Creating a report

> 1. Click **Add report** in the top menu bar to open the **Add report** dialog.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Click **Add report** in the top menu bar to open the **Add report** dialog window.
```

  <br>![Add report](/images/users-guide/cockpit/cockpit-report-add.png)<br>

> 2. In the **Menu label** field, enter a name for the report and optionally provide a description below.

Reviewer: Provide examples

3. Select **Show in navigator** if you want the report to be displayed in the navigator. Select the position of the report in the navigator. Depending on the value it will be positioned relative to the existing items. If for example "Home" has the value "10000" it will be positioned above "Home", if the value is "10001" or higher.

> 4. In the **Layout** section you can select a theme for the report (one of "Light", "Dark", "Transparent" or "Branded") and a default header style for the widgets (one of "Regular", "Border", "Overlay", or "Hidden"). Moreover, you can change the default widget margin (default value is 15 px).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. In the **Layout** section you can select a theme for the report (one of "Light", "Dark", "Transparent" or "Branded") and a default header style for the widgets (for example, "Regular", "Border", "Overlay", or "Hidden"). Moreover, you can change the default widget margin (default value is 15 px).
```

If you enable the option **Translate widget titles if possible**, the widget title will be translated every time the language is changed. Note that the widget titles will be translated only if a valid translation is available.
Click **Save** to create the report and add it to the report list.

{{< c8y-admon-info >}}
In the **Preview** section at the right, a preview of the selected layout settings is immediately displayed to visualize your selections.
{{< /c8y-admon-info >}}

You have created a report, in step 6 you will learn how to add widgets.

Follow the instructions below to create a new report. You may need to check if you meet the [requirements](/cockpit/working-with-reports/) first.

> Go to the [Working with reports](/cockpit/working-with-reports/) for more on how to edit and delete reports.

Reviewer 2: It might be necessary to rename Step 4 and 5 in order to avoid confusion between the beginners tutorial and the Cockpit section.

{{< c8y-admon-info >}}
You can also develop your own widgets and add them to your {{< product-c8y-iot >}} account. For more information go to [Add a custom widget to a dashboard](/web/tutorials/#add-a-custom-widget-to-dashboard).
{{< /c8y-admon-info >}}

#### To add a widget to a dashboard or a report

1. Click **Add widget** in the top menu bar or click the **Add widget** button on the main page (only available in case of an empty dashboard/report).

2. In the **Add widget** dialog, select a widget type.

3. Next, configure the widget. According to the selected widget type, different parameters may be specified under **Configuration**. For details on each widget type refer to [Widgets collection](/cockpit/widgets-collection/).

4. In the **Appearence** tab, you can customize the content and header style for the widget individually, in the same way as specifying the layout of a [dashboard](/cockpit/working-with-dashboards/).

{{< c8y-admon-info >}}

> The header styles "Regular" and "Border" can be used for all widgets while the header styles "Overlay" and "Hidden" remove the header and should only be used for widgets which benefit from a full-screen experience, for example "Image" or "Map". For other widgets, like "Alarms list" or "Data point table", these header styles should not be used.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The header styles "Regular" and "Border" can be used for all widgets. However, the header styles "Overlay" and "Hidden" remove the header and should only be used for widgets which benefit from a full-screen experience, for example, "Image" or "Map". For other widgets, like "Alarms list" or "Data point table", we do not recommend you to use these header styles.
```
